Prateek Kalshan : The first thing is that we are allowed to use the ArcGIS online, right?
Prateek Kalshan : As we have agreed the last time.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Yep, Yep.
Prateek Kalshan : Yeah.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : I think that works. Umm.
Prateek Kalshan : And I'm also trying, we are also trying to tell you the number also test so that FBCC can reduce the cost.
Richer, Josh (MECP)
Yeah.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : So I'm trying to think so what's what's the cost associated with?
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Is this umm for credits within ARC GIS online?
Prateek Kalshan : No, no, no.
Prateek Kalshan : Uh, I think.
Prateek Kalshan : Uh, when we need to purchase and ArcGIS online account, we need to spend around $950 per year, I think so.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Uh, for for each year?
Prateek Kalshan : Yeah.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : OK.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : If you guys, if you guys can get me numbers of what the cost is, is that is that what Kendra had suggested?
Prateek Kalshan : No, as we haven't discussed this with Kendra.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : All you with you with Paige?
Prateek Kalshan : Yeah, yeah.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : OK.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : I mean, as far as I know, the organization has no money to give whatsoever.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : But again, if you if you give me that cost, then I'll see if we can make something happen.
Prateek Kalshan : Yeah.
Prateek Kalshan : And if there are other possibilities, like using the the College already has some accounts right and the one that we as a Student use.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Yes.
Prateek Kalshan : So whether it's it is possible for the FBCC to integrate into that or it then it will be great, right?
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Yeah, well, my thought is maybe if we talk with Kevin Rabjohn about getting an account specifically for the fbcc.
Prateek Kalshan : We are working on arcGIS online and we we have a good to proceed with that, right.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Yep, Yep, that's perfect with me.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Yeah, go ahead.
Prateek Kalshan : OK.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Yeah.
Prateek Kalshan : OK, send that then again and can I need your help with the.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Sure.
Prateek Kalshan : I tried to create the live web map and I done some codes and extract the data from the inaturalist app.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : OK.
Prateek Kalshan : But the problem is that in order to do it on a regular basis, it needs an account that is being there for a while and that have done so many collections as possible like so do their PC has any account that has been active in collecting data.
Prateek Kalshan : Then I can use that account to make an application which is available in the inaturalist it's itself uh yeah.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : OK, so so then you would need a specific account for the FBCC for inaturalist?
Prateek Kalshan : Yeah which has been there, which is uh, through which there should be enough data collection like gundeals.
Prateek Kalshan : Yeah, that that is the number of letter collection that is required to create an application using inaturalist I guess.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : OK.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Yeah, because I'm not sure if they do use an inaturalist account.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : The only reason being is because there's just so many people moving through there that anybody could collect the data.
Prateek Kalshan : OK.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Umm, but I'll double check because if there is then that's then that's great as well.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : But yeah, if there's a way that we could get it to have all of the data hosted then fantastic.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : But I but I can see that that's it's a bit of a challenge there.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : So I'll double check with that and get back to you.
Prateek Kalshan : Yeah, at least has 20 data.
Prateek Kalshan : Just need an account that is capable of creating an application in inaturalist and the requirement that is being posted by inaturalist is that it should have made 20 collections and it should be ohm ohm.
Prateek Kalshan : All that has two months isn't yeah.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : OK, I see.
Prateek Kalshan : Like if it is possible then that would be great, otherwise I'll have to make some fun random collections, but I'm not sure how to do and yeah.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : OK, OK.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Yeah.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Then I'll look into that and I'll get back to you guys on that.
Prateek Kalshan : And I am and try to make it as early as Possible because yeah, I think this is gonna be last for four more weeks.
Prateek Kalshan : The project
Richer, Josh (MECP) : OK.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Ohh I see.
Prateek Kalshan : And like the project, we are only allowed to have work on the projects for five weeks in total.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Ohh yeah, OK. OK.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : So yeah, I'm just writing that down there and then I will.
Connect with them. And go from there.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Is there anything else that you guys were looking for?
Prateek Kalshan : Yeah. Ohh.
Prateek Kalshan : We are working on spatial analysis and we have a idea about the spatial analysis as we will be doing the analysis.
Prateek Kalshan : Now we will be having two factor consideration as positive and -ve, 1 one will be focusing on the risk which will be like facing by words and 2nd will be the positive side of it.
Prateek Kalshan : So which habitat will be suitable for birds for future and for the present time?
Prateek Kalshan : So is it a good idea to go along?
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Yeah.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Yeah, I think that's great. Yeah.
Prateek Kalshan : And can we have like your view what can be a parameter to consider for negative and positive?
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Well, if this is specific to spatial analysis like is this.
Richer, Josh (MECP)  : Is this specific to risk?
Prateek Kalshan : Yeah. Yes.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : So then some of those things, I mean, if we were looking at positive spatial analysis, we'd be looking at ideal nesting sites.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : So tree cover percentage tree cover.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Umm.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : In the area grass area, especially for grassland prairies and and species that will spend time in there as well as proximity to like feeding grounds, so areas with lots of shrubs that have Berry berries, service berries, that sort of thing.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Those I think would be positives, negatives.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : I think I would put more Capacity to loud noises so heavy equipment in the back.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : I would also consider windowed areas.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Obviously, the entire building isn't windowed, but small portions of it are, so that would be another factor that I would say is negative just for reflectance and then.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Yeah, I don't think there is anything else that's too, I mean possibly traffic, whether that's vehicle or human traffic.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : I would consider those as well.
Prateek Kalshan : OK.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Yep, exactly.
Prateek Kalshan : And that is all and then saying so just when we are collecting data, there should be some unique things that FBCC members should use to log into the form, right?
Prateek Kalshan : That I application that we have to use to collect bird sightings.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : I don't know.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : I think it'll actually be open facing.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Because I remember, we talked about it being hosted on that web page, but I think the the main thing there was that it, it needs to be able to be viewed by the public.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : So I don't know if we necessarily need to sign in for that.
Prateek Kalshan : OK, so anyone like if a single user is collecting multiple data so each time should he have to give his name itself rather than that there shouldn't be any identification being done.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Yeah, that's a good question because I know like even or not naturalist, they don't necessarily need to put their their personal names or show their personal names.
Prateek Kalshan : The personal name for yeah.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Umm, so I mean, yeah, if if you if there's an option to give umm a name to show who's collecting the data, I think that would be great.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : But I wouldn't make it mandatory that it's first and last name, just a username or something like that would be would be effective.
Prateek Kalshan
So just an open application that anyone can collect data?
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Yep, I think that would be ideal.
Prateek Kalshan : And and I have a filtered out the data from the I naturalist and around and there are around 90 two birds uh and that are being commonly found here you need that.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Sure.
Prateek Kalshan : So that would be it, right?
Prateek Kalshan : There is nothing else that we have to consider while making a form, right?
Richer, Josh (MECP) : No, I think that it's a.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : It's any any bird species that are in that area are great to note.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : But yeah, there's nothing else we don't have to worry about.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Any any mammals or anything like that outside of the outside of bird species, even plant species, I don't think really matter unless it's a factor for your spatial analysis.
Prateek Kalshan : Yeah, like there are.
Prateek Kalshan : Would there be any chance that the members of the FBCC have to collect any but speech is other than what is being already connected in the inaturalist?
Richer, Josh (MECP) : It is possible.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Yeah, I think it's difficult because none of them are are technically there right now.
Prateek Kalshan
OK.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : So it would, I'm sure that it would continue.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : It would definitely get use umm, provided that the the FBCC still running those nature walks and those sorts of things and out there collecting that data.
Prateek Kalshan : OK, OK.
Prateek Kalshan : And Josh, we would like to ask about the website as well.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Sure.
Prateek Kalshan : As you mentioned earlier that we are supposed to give a website specific for FBCC.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Yeah.
Prateek Kalshan : So should we have to make it from scratch or can we use any existing template?
Richer, Josh (MECP) : You can.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : I'm fine with you using any existing template.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : The the hard thing is that unfortunately we can't get you access to the FBCC website, just it's it's more of a pain to go that route.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : So unfortunately we can't change anything in there.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : But I mean, yeah, you you have free creative freedom on that front.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Uhm, if you take a look at, I can't remember if I sent it to you, but I'll send it in the chat right now.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Let's see here.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : If you make it somewhat similar to the to the current site.
Prateek Kalshan
Yeah.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Umm, I think that that would that would be ideal, but ultimately we just wanna be able to see that you can host a web map there. 
And you know any other any other pertinent information that's gonna help.
Prateek Kalshan
OK.
Prateek Kalshan : And so, Josh, as you don't have any access to the existing FBCC website, would it be possible for you to give us the images if you want to retain that images inside that already existing in website to give us so that we can make a similar appearance or the at least in the front page?
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Yes, I'm.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : I'll have to double check on that.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : What we could do is alternatively we could create almost like a GitHub account specific to the FBCC.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : I'm thinking we could just transfer over all of that HTML, UM and Java into their web web page.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : But yes, let me double check with with Tom and the FBCC before before we fully commit to that.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Yeah, I mean, I mean ultimately from the from the sounds of it, it sounds like we're gonna likely need to create either an FSA, Arcgis account or an FBCC GIS account.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : We should be looking at creating an FBCC I naturalist account and then the same with GitHub.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : So those are things that will have to go to the board and or to the committee and and talk to them about.
Prateek Kalshan : And I naturalist second like as I mentioned it should be if possible it should be like all as possible and it should have made at least 10 or 20 observation.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : OK. OK.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : So yeah, get to at least get some data in there.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Yep.
Prateek Kalshan : You and it would be better if you if you can reply as soon as possible about this, because I started working on that call and it is breaking and yeah, that's taking them a lot of time.
Prateek Kalshan : So is this the and currently I'm working with some web tokens rather than using API.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : OK.
Prateek Kalshan : We only get the application then I can use that actually pays from them.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : OK, perfect.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : So then yeah, I'll check with them this week and then, uh, with any luck, I can send you out an email by the end of the week just confirming or hopefully confirming that we're good to go with this.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Alternatively, if I don't hear back this week, I'll make sure that I've got an answer for our next meeting, but hopefully sooner I'm with you sooner rather than later.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : I know you guys have There's a lot of work going on right now, so.
Prateek Kalshan : So are you available in the next week?
Prateek Kalshan : This time it's for.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Yeah.
Yep, and this works for me.
Prateek Kalshan : And Josh, the website which we will give to the FBCC, can we use the same website in our open house to showcase?
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Yep, Yep.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : I think that's a good idea, yeah.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : OK.
Prateek Kalshan : And also we collected some data, some trail data and we are trying we collected data which are bookable and we we already have some data which can give us.
Prateek Kalshan : So there are some data which is not matching.
So which data should we Consider the data which we collected over the data which is already there.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Where did you get the original data from?
Is it the stuff that I sent over?
Prateek Kalshan : Kendra give us some data in another course.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Ohh, OK, OK.
Prateek Kalshan : Well, there is some data related to trails in that there is one feature layer.
Prateek Kalshan : This is the data we got from when that Kendra provided and this is the data that we collected.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : OK so.
Prateek Kalshan : Maybe this is not walkable, or maybe that area which we got is old.
Now it is not accessible.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : OK.
Prateek Kalshan : which data should we continue?
Richer, Josh (MECP) : So I would actually put the two of those together.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Uh, that orange layer right there, that orange line layer I would just do the rest of the stuff that the Kendra had given you.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Yeah, I would do that in orange and just link it and just have all of that there, because even if some of those trails are currently closed, there is potential for them to reopen down the road or change.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : And I do know that if we're looking at the main building, umm, those trails and there are actually they're paved trails, so they do still exist.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : I would include those and just put the put the two together.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : So if you've already got like, I see that you've got some in the Northeast section that are already.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Already done by you guys.
I would just expand it to include the other areas too.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : So yeah, Yep, I and it looks like you guys did a did a good amount in there as well, so.
Prateek Kalshan : But should we merge all the data that we collected and that kinda provided?
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Yeah, I think that's I think that's good.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : It looks good that it's good that you guys went out as well and and collected that umm.
Prateek Kalshan : And is there any other data or FBCC?
Which is it helpful for us?
Richer, Josh (MECP) : Not that I know of.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : If there's anything else, it could because I believe that you you guys were added to that, that FBCC group in our JS online.
Richer, Josh (MECP) : So anything else, which I believe you guys already pulled from there?
Prateek Kalshan
Thank you so much for your time and uh information you have provided us and we will be sharing you the link for the next meeting by today only, OK.
Richer, Josh (MECP)
Yep, Yep.
Richer, Josh (MECP)
If you guys send send that in invitation over then then we'll be good to go.
Prateek Kalshan
OK.
Prateek Kalshan
My next day you would be I think we would be able to show you some result results as well.
Richer, Josh (MECP)
Great.
Prateek Kalshan
Yeah, sure.
Richer, Josh (MECP)
And and like I said, I will try and get that information, but by the end of this week, umm and and get that back to you.
Prateek Kalshan
OK. OK.
Richer, Josh (MECP)
Perfect.
Prateek Kalshan
Thank you so much.
Prateek Kalshan
Thank you so much for the.
Richer, Josh (MECP)
Alright, excellent.
